---
title: Twenty Seventeen
permalink: /2017.html
layout: post
---

## UNRELEASED DRAFT

Jump to: [Travel](#travel), [Business](#business), [Life](#life)

<a name='travel'></a>

## Travel

*Summary: Taiwan, Korea, China, Hong Kong, Vietnam, USA, a boat from Vancouver to Alaska to Japan, Spain, and Morocco. I'm living in NYC now, until at late spring at least.*

I spent 8 months this year enjoying and exploring Japan. I studied Japanese pretty seriously for 2 months in autumn, and am getting closer to a basic conversational level. Tokyo definitely feels like a home now, but I also know I need to keep forcing myself out of my comfort zone to explore new, more challenging places while it's still an option.

In the spring, I took a 2 week trip to Taiwan and had a wonderful time. I met a bunch of very friend locals who I explored the area with, and ate more xoa long bao (a type of dumpling) than I probably should have. There is plenty of beautiful nature and quaint towns to see near Taipei, let alone central and southern Taiwan. I look forward to my next trip there.

During the summer, after cafe hopping around Seoul for a few weeks, I took a ship to China (Qingdao), then I meandered to Shanghai and eventually back to Hong Kong. I meant to spend much more time in China, but the 43c (110f) weather wasn't really conducive to enjoyable backpacking. China is a massive country with so much to see, I'm glad I have a 10 year visa.

Hong Kong is another one of those places where, even though I haven't spent much time there, it has begun to feel like a home of sorts. While being a little bit expensive, it's super comfortable and has an endless number of side streets and markets to explore. I can see myself spending quite a bit more time here in the future.

To mix things up a little bit, I took a quick flight down to Hanoi (northern Vietnam). It was my second time there, and I spent about a week meandering between little cafes and restaurants around town. The greenery scattered throughout the streets gives it a much calmer, relaxed vibe compared to what I experienced living in Saigon (Ho Chi Minh City) in the south. Once I was finished, I hopped on a train north through the hills and crossed the border back into China in the middle of the night, again ending up in Hong Kong.

The next stop was New York & Pennsylvania for some quick catching up with friends and family, followed by a hop over to Vancouver. Even though there were huge wildfires filling the sky with smoke (some of the biggest in decades), Vancouver, Whislter, and everything in between we're incredibly beautiful. Something about alpine forests and water really speaks to me, probably related to my visits to Maine when I was younger.

Finally, I was boarding the ship in Vancouver that would take me to Alaska, and then all the way to Japan. Trans-Pacific crossings aren't common, so I was only able find 2 cruises that crossed once a year. I usually don't plan very far ahead (sometimes day-by-day), but because of this I had to plan a few months in advance. I could have gone on a container ship, but the cruise ship was far cheaper, had all you can eat buffets every meal, fast unlimited wifi, and plenty of hot tubs. You can't beat that. Fortunately, a good friend of mine named Arlton, was able to join and we got to nerd out the entire time about our businesses. These 14 days on the boat proved to be an excellent time to really hone down and focus on a specific set of goals.

Our quick stop in Sitka Alaska reinforced my perception of the state being an endless expanse of lush green wilderness. Following Sitka, we spent an entire 10 days at sea. At some point Arlton made a very accurate comment that this must resemble what space travel feels like. Every day you wake up with absolutely nothing out the window, and nowhere to go. We crossed into the Bering sea, and back into the pacific before passing some Russian islands and finally the northern island of Japan called Hokkaido. The night before reaching Japan, we got hammered by a powerful typhoon with what the captain described as 10-meter waves, as a sort of parting reminder that the ocean does not mess around.

After gloating on potatoes and miso ramen in Sapporo (biggest city in Hokkaido), and a winding train journey through the volcanos to Hakodate (southern city of Hokkaido), I jumped back on the boat and we completed our journey to Tokyo. After so much water, it was good to be "home" on dry land. Having fast internet and endless food options definitely made the trip enjoyable, but so did the fellow 2,000 guests. They were mostly retired, and had lots of interesting stories. There were very few reasons for our conversations to last any less than 2 to 3 hours.

By the end of November, Japan was getting cold so that meant it was time to pack up my things and go. I headed to the last place I had left in southern Europe, Barcelona, with the plan to continue further south from there. Spain was colder than usual, around 0c (32f) early in the mornings, and ended up being even colder than Japan. Seville was a bit warmer, and the lively atmosphere of the city helped distract that point. A quick lunch in Gibraltar gave a good view of Africa across the strait of Gibralter, and then it was off to Tarifa, the most southern tip of mainland Europe. That's where I jumped on a boat and sailed across the strait, ending up in Morocco. My first time in Africa!

Back in New York.

<a name='business'></a>

## Business

I spent quite a bit of time this year honing the core goals of the business. I've since branded the company as [Reustle.co](https://reustle.co). I had a few clients in Tokyo, which was a fun experience, but in the end I enjoy working with my New York clients the most.

More experiments coming, focus on New York clients, side projects involving smaller businesses in US now that I can actually visit them. Want to work on things I'm passionate about. Playing with hardware?


<a name='life'></a>

## Life

Mental health. Happy, lots of time to reflect over past 3 years (always some new perspective), digging deeper into happiness, depression, and 'chasing ghosts'. Building deep relationships is hard when you don't put roots down for extended periods of time. Especially romantic relationships.

Really excited to reconnect on a deeper level with old New York friends, and make new ones. Will also be spending at least half of my time working with my hands, on my property in Pennsylvania. Treehouse on the island? Animals (huskies), nature, and the freedom that a car gives that is generally much harder to get while traveling (tied to public transit). I _really_ miss driving / riding.





.
